hi I'm chef Keith snow welcome to my
kitchen I want to show you how to make
your own cranberry sauce so you don't
have to buy the stuff in the can I grew
up eating the stuff in the can it's not
gonna kill you
but it's much better to make your own
and very simple check it out
first thing bags of cranberries you get
these in a store we're gonna use two
bags very simple we'll take them and
just dump them right into our pot here
and this is a good heavy bottom pot you
don't want to use a flimsy pan because
this has to cook for a while so two bags
of cranberries and to me anymore it's
not Thanksgiving without homemade
cranberry sauce so if you've never tried
it before do it okay right here is a
quarter teaspoon of cinnamon and a
quarter teaspoon of nutmeg freshly
ground dump that right in and this is a
quarter teaspoon of ground cloves get
that right in there now as you know
cranberries are extremely tart so we
need to add some sugar it's one and a
half cups of sugar and then we're gonna
flavor it with orange and what we're
gonna do before we use the orange juice
we're gonna take the zest off this is a
zester or a microplane and what you want
to do is scrape and you can see that it
gets to the white part quickly you don't
want to scrape down until it's very
white because that's bitter so you just
want to continue to move the orange
taking as little of the white pith as
possible and I'm gonna move and do this
over my pot here and this orange zest
it's where all the flavor is the
essential oils from the orange are in
the zest of course the juice has flavor
too but not as much as the zest so we
don't want to waste it
so we'll get most of this is s and it
kind of hides in the back of the
microplane then I'll do the other one
and the smell is amazing if the camera
guys can really see it every time I
bring this rasp across there's a big
spray of orange oil that's going into
the air it's kind of pretty cool okay
that's enough zest now we're gonna cut
these in half and squeeze out as much
juice as we can get out I'm not going to
add any water to this because those
cranberries
they've got cranberry juice inside and
when this starts to cook the juice will
come out now at this point a little salt
what yeah salt got to have salt in there
because that'll make your sugar taste
better salt brings flavors out so don't
freak out a little pinch of kosher salt
take a little spoon just sort of mix
this together and this will go on the
stove medium-low heat what's gonna
happen are those cranberries will start
to pop let out their juice and theirs
they're loaded with pectin so when you
cook this it'll cook about an hour it
all break down and then when you cool it
off the pectin is what will make it gel
a little bit so cover goes on on the
stove I'll show you what it looks like
in a few minutes
okay our cranberry sauce is complete we
cooked it on the stove over there for
about 45 minutes most of those
cranberries popped all that pectin and
cranberry juice was released what I did
was I took a sheet pan and I took it out
of the pot and I poured it onto the
sheet pan and I laid it out like this so
it would cool quicker I also put it in
the refrigerator and you can see the
effect that the pectin has it's very
almost jelly like like that nasty canned
stuff so now we want to take this we're
gonna just scrape it off of here
hopefully I don't get any on the table
and this makes the two bags we'll make
enough to serve a lot of people and it's
very inexpensive and as you can see very
easy to do and I can promise you this is
gonna be much better than that a jelly
roll that comes out of the can so there
is some beautiful rustic cranberry sauce
make this for this Thanksgiving thanks
for watching to see more tips techniques
and videos visit harvest eating comm for
seasons one lifestyle